

enabling and configuring ca server:
http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/security-vpn/ipsec-negotiation-ike-protocols/50282-ios-ca-ios.html

###Certificate Authority:
a) CAs are responsible for managing certificate requests and issuing digital certificates. 
b) A digital certificate contains information that identifies a user or device. 
c) Some of this information can include a name, serial number, company, department, or IP address. 
d) A digital certificate also contains a copy of the public key for the user or device. 
e) A CA can be a trusted third party, such as VeriSign, or a private (in-house) CA that you establish within your organization.

###Public Key Cryptography:
a) Digital signatures, enabled by public key cryptography, provide a means to authenticate devices and users. 
b) In public key cryptography, such as the RSA encryption system, each user has a key pair containing both a public and a private key. 
c) The keys act as complements, and anything encrypted with one of the keys can be decrypted with the other.
eg:
1) In simple terms, a signature is formed when data is encrypted with a private key. 
2) The signature is attached to the data and sent to the receiver. 
3) The receiver applies the public key of the sender to the data. 
4) If the signature sent with the data matches the result of applying the public key to the data, the validity of the message is established.

This process relies on the receiver having a copy of the public key of the sender and having a high degree of certainty that this key belongs to the sender, not to someone pretending to be the sender.
Obtaining the public key of a sender is normally handled out-of-band or through an operation done at installation. 
For instance, most web browsers are configured with the root certificates of several CAs by default.
For VPN, the IKE protocol, a component of IPSec, can use digital signatures to authenticate peer devices before setting up security associations.

###Certificate Scalability:
a) Without digital certificates, you must manually configure each IPSec peer for every peer with which it communicates, and every new peer you add 
to a network would thus require a configuration change on every peer with which you need it to communicate securely.
b) When you use digital certificates, each peer is enrolled with a CA. When two peers attempt to communicate, they exchange certificates and digitally 
sign data to authenticate each other. When a new peer is added to the network, you enroll that peer with a CA and none of the other peers need modification. 
When the new peer attempts an IPSec connection, certificates are automatically exchanged and the peer can be authenticated.
c) With a CA, a peer authenticates itself to the remote peer by sending a certificate to the remote peer and performing some public key cryptography. Each peer 
sends its unique certificate which was issued by the CA. This process works because each certificate encapsulates the public key for the associated peer 
and each certificate is authenticated by the CA, and all participating peers recognize the CA as an authenticating authority. This is called IKE with an RSA signature.
d) The peer can continue sending its certificate for multiple IPSec sessions, and to multiple IPSec peers, until the certificate expires. When its certificate expires, 
the peer administrator must obtain a new one from the CA.
e) CAs can also revoke(cancel officially) certificates for peers that no longer participate in IPSec. Revoked certificates are not recognized as valid by other peers. 
Revoked certificates are listed in a CRL, which each peer may check before accepting a certificate from another peer
f) Some CAs have an RA as part of their implementation. An RA is a server that acts as a proxy for the CA so that CA functions can 
continue when the CA is unavailable.

###Key Pairs:
Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol,  Certificate Management Protocol and Certificate Management over CMS are certificate enrollment protocols
RSA is one of the first practical public-key cryptosystems and is widely used for secure data transmission. In such a cryptosystem, the encryption 
key is public and differs from the decryption key which is kept secret.
1) RSA keys can be used for SSH or SSL.
2) SCEP enrollment supports the certification of RSA keys.
3) For the purposes of generating keys, the maximum key modulus for RSA keys is 2048 bits. The default size is 1024. 
Many SSL connections using identity certificates with RSA key pairs that exceed 1024 bits can cause a high CPU usage on the security appliance and 
rejected clientless logins.

•For signature operations, the supported maximum key size is 4096 bits.
•You can generate a general purpose RSA key pair, used for both signing and encryption, or 
you can generate separate RSA key pairs for each purpose.

4) Separate signing and encryption keys helps reduce exposure of the keys. 
This is because SSL uses a key for encryption but not signing but IKE uses a key for signing but not encryption. 
By using separate keys for each, exposure of the keys is minimized.

###Trustpoints
a) Trustpoints let you manage and track CAs and certificates. 
b) A trustpoint is a representation of a CA or identity pair. 
c) A trustpoint contains the identity of the CA, CA-specific configuration parameters, and an association with one enrolled identity certificate.

After you have defined a trustpoint, you can reference it by name in commands requiring that you specify a CA. You can configure many trustpoints.


Note If a security appliance has multiple trustpoints that share the same CA, only one of these trustpoints sharing the CA can be used to validate user certificates. Use the support-user-cert-validation command to control which trustpoint sharing a CA is used for validation of user certificates issued by that CA.

For automatic enrollment, a trustpoint must be configured with an enrollment URL and the CA that the trustpoint represents must be available on the network and must support SCEP.

You can export and import the keypair and issued certificates associated with a trustpoint in PKCS12 format. This is useful if you wish to manually duplicate a trustpoint configuration on a different security appliance.


http://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/td/docs/security/asa/asa80/configuration/guide/conf_gd/cert_cfg.html
1) fingerprint 24b81433 409b3fd5 e5431699 8d490d34 